We discussed risk treatment earlier,
but we haven't yet discussed what to do after you choose a risk mitigation plan.
Now, after you decide on what you want to do with the risk,
you have to decide on how you're going to do it.
That how are really your risk remediation activities?
Likely, this really occurs during the risk treatment process.
See, during the treatment process,
you're naturally going to need to discuss
various options to make an informed decision about the risk.
So let's take, for example,
an organization's plan for building a new product.
There might be certain security risks associated with the product.
During your risk treatment discussion,
a risk manager decides, "Hey,
the best option here is really to have
a different company to develop and host the product for you".
Now, this equates to transferring the risk,
but you also have your remediation plan.
Your remediation plan is that another company is going to take on the risk for you.
So your risk remediation plans are designed to
track this decision-making process as the resulting activity.
It should track the decision,
plans for remediating risk,
and the key milestones.
It's like creating a project plan for each remediation activity.
You may have heard the term POA&M before.
What is it?
Well, I'll briefly mention that there's a US federal connotation to the term.
It's used quite a bit in risk management for federal systems.
But we mentioned creating plans of action earlier.
POA&Ms are supposed to be management tools for tracking the mitigation of findings.
So in that way, they roughly equate to what I just described as a risk register.
But in federal terms,
POA&M should contain what we call corrective action plans.
These are the specific plans that you make based
on your assessment of how risk should be treated.
So the corrective action plan is a plan for how you will mitigate that risk.
These equate more readily to what I just described as remediation plans.
The reason I mentioned all of this is that it seems to me that
POA&M has made its way into the common risk management vernacular.
So you hear it outside of the federal government.
But outside of federal risk management activities,
POE&Ms in corrective action plans are
often conflated to really mean the exact same thing.
Meaning that these become tactical approaches to remediating risk
identified during the risk assessment and that are captured in a risk register.
Now, regardless of what you're actually calling risk remediation activities,
it's vastly important that you continue to keep track of those.